# Sorghum Pan-genome

Sorghum bicolor, one of the most important grass crops around the world, harbors a high degree of genetic diversity. We constructed chromosome-level genome assemblies for two important sorghum inbred lines, Tx2783 and RTx436, with contig N50 values of 25.6 and 20.3 Mb, respectively, and annotated the genes using evidence-based and de novo gene predictors. Together with other public sorghum genomes, BTx623, RTx430, and Rio, we characterized extensive structural variations (SVs) of various sizes using Tx2783 as a reference, and used these SVs along with the Tx2783 genome to construct a pan-genome.  We classified each gene as core or dispensable based on resequencing data from 62 public sorghum accessions, identifying 56% genes as core, 11.2% as soft core, 32.2% as dispensable, and 0.6% as private to Tx2783. Comparative genomic analysis revealed that the core genes are in regions syntenic to other grasses more often than soft core and dispensable genes. Core genes also tend to be from older gene families than soft core and dispensable genes, whereas private genes cluster with younger gene families. Genome-wide scanning for disease resistance (R) genes revealed high levels of diversity among these five sorghum accessions. To characterize sugarcane aphid (SCA) resistance in Tx2783, we mapped the resistance region on chromosome 6 using a recombinant inbred line (RIL) population and found an SV of 191 kb containing a cluster of R genes in Tx2783. This study provides the first overview of the extent of genomic structural variations and R genes in the sorghum population, and reveals potential targets for breeding of SCA resistance. 

Bo Wang, Yinping Jiao, Kapeel Chougule, Andrew Olson, Jian Huang, Victor Llaca, Kevin Fengler, Xuehong Wei, Liya Wang, Xiaofei Wang, Michael Regulski, Jorg Drenkow, Thomas Gingeras, Chad Hayes, J. Scott Armstrong, Yinghua Huang, Zhanguo Xin, Doreen Ware. Pan-genome Analysis in Sorghum Highlights the Extent of Genomic Variation and Sugarcane Aphid Resistance Genes. bioRxiv, 2021, doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2021.01.03.424980 
